The Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 98: Suggestions for Fairs and
Bazaars, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Star Book No. 98: Suggestions for Fairs and Bazaars

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: May 21, 2020 [EBook #62190]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 98: FAIRS AND BAZAARS ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net









                      STAR BOOK No. 98    10 CENTS




                  _Suggestions for FAIRS and BAZAARS_


     DOILIES • HOT PLATE MATS • PIN CUSHIONS • POT HOLDERS • NAPKIN
                         HOLDERS • CHAIR BACKS

    [Illustration: Logo]

                     _The American Thread Company_
                  260 W. BROADWAY, NEW YORK 13, N. Y.

             Copyright 1953, The American Thread Co., Inc.
                          Printed in U. S. A.




                          CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS

                    ch           Chain
                    s c          Single Crochet
                    s d c        Short Double Crochet
                    d c          Double Crochet
                    tr c         Treble Crochet
                    d tr c       Double Treble Crochet
                    tr tr c      Treble Treble Crochet
                    sl st        Slip Stitch
                    st           Stitch
                    sts          Stitches

  An Asterisk (*) indicates that the instructions immediately following
  are to be repeated the given number of times plus the original. ** Are
  used in the same way.




                           _Pineapple Doily_


    [Illustration: Pineapples]

                        _18 INCHES IN DIAMETER_

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, size 30
        2 balls White.
          _or_
      “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 20, size 30
        3 balls White.
    Steel crochet hook No. 12.

Ch 10, join to form a ring, ch 4 and work 31 tr c in ring, join in 4th
st of ch.

2nd Round. Ch 4 (always count as part of 1st cluster st at beginning of
each round), 2 tr c in same space keeping last loop of each tr c on
hook, thread over and work off all loops at one time, * ch 3, skip 1 tr
c, cluster st in next tr c (cluster st: 3 tr c in same space keeping
last loop of each tr c on hook, thread over and work off all loops at
one time), repeat from * all around, ch 3, join in top of 1st cluster
st.

3rd Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, * ch 2, tr c over next loop,
ch 2, cluster st in next cluster st, repeat from * all around ending
with ch 2, tr c over last loop, ch 2, join.

4th Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, * ch 3, tr c in next tr c, ch
3, cluster st in next cluster st, repeat from * all around ending with
ch 3, tr c in next tr c, ch 3, join.

5th Round. Repeat 4th round but having ch 4 between cluster sts and tr
c’s.

6th Round. Repeat 4th round but having ch 5 between cluster sts and tr
c’s.

7th Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, ch 3, cluster st in same
space (cluster st shell), * ch 4, tr c in next tr c, ch 4, cluster st
shell in next cluster st, repeat from * all around ending with ch 4, tr
c in next tr c, ch 4, join.

8th Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, * ch 5, cluster st in next
cluster st of same cluster st shell, ch 3, tr c in next tr c, ch 3,
cluster st in 1st cluster st of next cluster st shell, repeat from * all
around ending to correspond, ch 3, join.

9th Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, * ch 9, cluster st in next
cluster st, ch 3, tr c in next tr c, ch 3, cluster st in next cluster
st, repeat from * all around ending to correspond, ch 3, join.

10th Round. Ch 4, cluster st in same space, ch 6, sl st in 6th st from
hook for picot, * ch 13, s c in 6th st from hook to form picot, ch 7,
cluster st in next cluster st, ch 6, sl st in 6th st from hook for
picot, cluster st in next cluster st, repeat from * all around, ending
to correspond, join.

11th Round. Sl st into picot, ch 4, cluster st shell in same picot, * ch
5, 6 tr c in next picot, ch 5, cluster st shell in next picot, repeat
from * all around ending to correspond, ch 5, join. All shells are
cluster st shells and will be referred to as shells for remainder of
doily.

12th Round. Sl st into center of shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch
5, s c in 1st tr c, * ch 6, s c in next tr c, repeat from * 4 times
(pineapple), ch 5, shell in center of next shell, repeat from ** all
around ending to correspond, ch 5, join.

13th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 6, skip 1
loop, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat
from * 3 times, ch 6, shell in next shell, repeat from ** all around
ending to correspond, ch 6, join.

14th Round. Same as last round but having 3 loops across each pineapple.

15th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ch 3, cluster
st in same space, ** ch 6, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, * ch 6, s c in
next loop, repeat from * once, ch 6, 3 cluster sts with ch 3 between
each cluster st in center of next shell, repeat from ** all around
ending to correspond, join.

16th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 9, s c in
6th st from hook for picot, ch 3, shell in next ch 3 loop, ch 6, s c in
1st loop of pineapple, ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 6, shell in next ch 3
loop, repeat from * all around ending to correspond, join.

17th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 5, 7 tr c
in next picot, ch 5, shell in next shell, ch 6, s c in last loop of
pineapple, ch 6, shell in next shell, repeat from * all around ending to
correspond, join.

18th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 5, s c in
next tr c, * ch 6, s c in next tr c, repeat from * 5 times, ch 5, shell
in next shell, ch 6, s c in next s c, ch 6, shell in next shell, repeat
from ** all around ending to correspond, join.

19th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 6, s c in
1st loop of pineapple, * ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * 4 times,
ch 6, shell in next shell, shell in next shell, repeat from ** all
around ending to correspond, join.

20th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 6, s c in
1st loop of pineapple, work 4-ch 6 loops across pineapple, ch 6, shell
in next shell, ch 1, shell in next shell, repeat from * all around
ending to correspond, join.

21st Round. Same as last round but having 3 loops across each pineapple
and ch 2 between shells.

22nd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 6, s c in
1st loop of pineapple, ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * once, ch 6,
shell in next shell, ch 9, s c in 6th st from hook for picot, ch 3,
shell in next shell, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond,
join.

23rd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 6, s c in
1st loop of pineapple, ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 6, shell in next
shell, ch 6, 8 tr c in next picot, ch 6, shell in next shell, repeat
from * all around ending to correspond, join.

24th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 6, s c in
last loop of pineapple, ch 6, shell in next shell, ch 6, s c in 1st tr
c, * ch 6, s c in next tr c, repeat from * 6 times, ch 6, shell in next
shell, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, join.

    [Illustration: Pineapple doily]

25th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 6, s c in
next s c, ch 6, shell in next shell, ch 7, s c in 1st loop of pineapple,
* ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * 5 times, ch 7, shell in next
shell, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, join.

26th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 2, shell
in next shell, ch 8, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, then work 5-ch 6
loops across pineapple, ch 8, shell in next shell, repeat from * all
around ending to correspond, join.

27th Round. Same as last round but having 4 loops across each pineapple
and ch 4 between shells.

28th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 12, s c in
8th st from hook for picot, ch 4, shell in next shell, ch 8, s c in 1st
loop of pineapple, work 3-ch 6 loops across pineapple, ch 8, shell in
next shell, repeat from * all around ending to correspond, join.

29th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, * ch 4, 4
cluster sts with ch 2 between each cluster st in next picot, ch 4, shell
in next shell, ch 8, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, work 2-ch 6 loops
across pineapple, ch 8, shell in next shell, repeat from * all around
ending to correspond, join.

30th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 4,
cluster st in next cluster st, * ch 2, tr c in next loop, ch 2, cluster
st in next cluster st, repeat from * twice, ch 4, shell in next shell,
ch 8, s c in 1st loop of pineapple, ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 8, shell
in next shell, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, join.

31st Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 4,
cluster st in next cluster st, * ch 3, tr c in next tr c, ch 3, cluster
st in next cluster st, repeat from * twice, ch 4, shell in next shell,
ch 8, s c in remaining loop of pineapple, ch 8, shell in next shell,
repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, join.

32nd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 4,
cluster st in next cluster st, * ch 4, tr c in next tr c, ch 4, cluster
st in next cluster st, repeat from * twice, ch 4, shell in next shell,
ch 8, s c in next s c, ch 8, shell in next shell, repeat from ** all
around ending to correspond, join.

33rd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 4, shell in same space, ** ch 5,
cluster st in next cluster st, * ch 5, tr c in next tr c, ch 5, cluster
st in next cluster st, repeat from * twice, ch 5, shell in next shell,
ch 3, shell in next shell, repeat from ** all around ending to
correspond, join.

                                           _(continuation from page 15)_

34th Round. Start of 1st point, sl st to center of shell, * ch 7,
cluster st in next cluster st, ch 4, tr c in next tr c, ch 4, 2 tr c
cluster st in next cluster st (2 tr c cluster st: 2 tr c in same space
keeping last loop of each tr c on hook, thread over and work off all
loops at one time), ** ch 4, turn, 1 tr c in same space, ch 3, tr c in
next tr c, ch 3, 3 tr c cluster st in next cluster st, ch 4, turn, 2 tr
c cluster st in same space, ch 2, tr c in next tr c, ch 2, 2 tr c
cluster st in next 2 tr c cluster st, ch 4, turn, 1 tr c in same space,
3 tr c cluster st in next cluster st, ch 1, turn, sl st in top of
cluster st just made, ch 6, sl st in same space for picot (top of
point), ch 4 and working down side of point, sl st in base of the 2 tr c
cluster st, * ch 4, sl st in base of next cluster st, repeat from *
twice.

2nd Point. Ch 4 (counts as part of 1st cluster st), cluster st in same
space as last sl st, ch 4, tr c in next tr c, ch 4, 2 tr c cluster st in
next cluster st, repeat from ** to end of 1st point.

3rd Point. Work same as 2nd point finishing the picot at top of point,
then ch 4 and working down side of point, sl st in base of 2 tr c
cluster st, ch 4, sl st in base of next cluster st, ch 4, sl st in base
of next cluster st, tr c in base of next cluster st, ch 7, s c in center
of next shell of 33rd round, ch 4, tr c in loop at top of pineapple, ch
6, sl st in top of tr c just made for picot, tr c in same space, ch 4, s
c in center of next shell, repeat from 1st * of 34th round 15 times, cut
thread.

    [Illustration: _Pillowcase with Motif Insert and Edge directions on
    page 6_]




                       _White Pillowcase Edging_


  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, size 30
        _or_
      “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 20, size 30
        1 ball White.
    Steel crochet hook No. 12.

Ch 18, d c in 8th st from hook, ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch, 2 d c in next
st, ch 2, 2 d c in next st, ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch, d c in next st, ch
2, skip 2 sts of ch, d c in last st, ch 5, turn.

2nd Row. D c in next d c, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell)
in next loop, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, d c in next d c, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of
end ch, ch 8, turn.

3rd Row. D c in 1st d c, ch 2, d c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch
2, d c in next d c, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

4th Row. D c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch 2, d c in next d c,
ch 2, d c in next d c, 6 d c in the ch 8 loop, ch 4, 7 d c in same loop,
ch 3, turn.

5th Row. 1 d c in each of the next 6 d c, 7 d c in the ch 4 loop, 1 d c
in each of the next 7 d c, ch 2, d c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell,
ch 2, d c in next d c, ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

6th Row. D c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch 2, d c in next d c,
ch 2, d c in next d c, * ch 2, skip 1 d c of scallop, d c in next d c,
repeat from * 4 times, ch 2, d c in same space, * ch 2, skip 1 d c, d c
in next st, repeat from * 4 times, ch 1, turn.

7th Row. 2 s c in 1st mesh, ch 2, sl st in top of last s c for picot, s
c in same mesh, * 2 s c in next mesh, ch 2, sl st in top of last s c for
picot, s c in same mesh, repeat from * 9 times, sl st in next d c, ch 5,
d c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch 2, d c in next d c, ch 2, d c
in 3rd st of ch, ch 5, turn.

                                            _(continuation from page 6)_

8th Row. D c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch 2, d c in next d c,
ch 2, d c in 3rd st of ch, ch 8, turn. Repeat the 3rd, 4th, and 5th rows
once.

12th Row. D c in next d c, ch 2, shell in shell, ch 2, d c in next d c,
ch 2, d c in next d c, * ch 2, skip 1 d c, d c in next d c, repeat from
* 4 times, ch 2, d c in same space, * ch 2, skip 1 d c, d c in next st,
repeat from * 4 times, join in 3rd free picot from top of previous
scallop, ch 1, turn.

13th Row. Same as 7th row. Repeat from 8th row until edge is long enough
to fit around lower edge of pillowcase. Sew in position.




                          _Shaded Pink Edging_


  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, Size 20
        1 ball Shaded Pinks or color desired _or_
      “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 20, size 20
        2 balls Shaded Pinks or color desired
    Steel crochet hook No. 10.

Ch 14, join to form a ring, ch 6, 2 d c in next st of ring, 2 d c in
next st, * ch 3, skip 1 st, 2 d c in each of the next 2 sts, repeat from
* once, ch 7, turn.

2nd Row. Thread over hook, insert in next loop, pull loop through,
thread over and work off 2 loops, thread over hook, insert in next d c,
pull loop through, thread over and work off 2 loops, thread over and
work off all loops at one time, * ch 3, d c in next d c, repeat from *
once, ch 3, thread over hook, insert in next d c, pull loop through,
thread over and work off 2 loops, thread over hook, insert in next loop,
pull loop through, thread over and work off 2 loops, thread over and
work off all loops at one time, ch 2, d c in end loop, ch 6, turn.

3rd Row. Skip the ch 2 loop, 4 d c in next loop, * ch 3, 4 d c in next
loop, repeat from * once, ch 7, turn. Repeat the last 2 rows for desired
length omitting ch 7 at end of last row of work and do not turn.

Next Row. Working across lower edge, s c in 1st ch 7 loop, s d c in same
loop (s d c: thread over hook, insert in loop, pull loop through, thread
over and work off all loops at one time), 2 d c in same loop, ch 3, sl
st in last d c for picot, 3 d c in same loop, ch 3, sl st in last d c
for picot, 1 d c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in same loop, * in next ch 7 loop work
1 s c, 1 s d c, 2 d c, ch 3 picot, 3 d c, ch 3 picot, 1 d c, 1 s d c, 1
s c, repeat from * across row, do not turn.

Next Row. Sl st to 1st loop at top of work, ch 1, 3 s c in same space, *
3 s c over next d c, 4 s c in next loop, repeat from * across row, cut
thread. Sew edging to pillowcase.




                            _Luncheon Cloth_


    [Illustration: Luncheon Cloth]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, size 30
        4 balls White
        2 balls Nile Green
        1 ball each Bright Red and Buttercup
          _or_
      “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 20, size 30
        5 balls White
        3 balls Nile Green
        1 ball each Bright Red and Lt. Yellow
    Steel crochet hook No. 11 or No. 12.

Each motif measures about 5¼ inches.

25 motifs, 5 x 5 are required for a cloth measuring about 28 inches x 28
inches.

FLOWER: With Buttercup, ch 8, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work 23 d c
in ring, join in 3rd st of ch, cut thread.

2nd Round. Attach Green in any d c, s c in same space, ch 3, s c in same
space (picot), * 1 s c in each of the next 3 d c, ch 3, s c in same
space with last s c, repeat from * 6 times, ending with 1 s c in each of
the last 2 d c, join, cut thread.

3rd Round. Attach Red in center of space between picots, ch 11, d c
between next 2 picots, * ch 8, d c between next 2 picots, repeat from *
5 times, ending with ch 8, sl st in 3rd st of ch.

4th Round. In next loop work 1 s c, 1 s d c (s d c: thread over hook,
insert in st, pull through, thread over and work off all loops at one
time), 8 d c, 1 s d c, 1 s c, in next loop work 1 s c, 1 s d c, 4 d c,
ch 3, sl st in top of last d c for picot, 4 d c, 1 s d c, 1 s c, repeat
from beginning all around, join, cut thread.

                                            _(continuation from page 7)_

LEAF: With Green, ch 15, s c in 5th st from hook, 1 s c in each of the
next 9 sts of ch, 2 s c, ch 2, 2 s c in end ch, working on other side of
ch, 1 s c in each of the next 10 sts, * ch 5, turn, skip 2 s c, working
in back loop of sts only throughout, 1 s c in each of the next 10 s c, 2
s c, ch 2, 2 s c in ch 2 loop, 1 s c in each of the next 10 s c, repeat
from * 6 times, ch 5, turn, skip 2 s c, 1 s c in each of the next 10 s
c, 2 s c in ch 2 loop of leaf, ch 1, sl st in ch 3 loop of flower, ch 1,
2 s c in same space of leaf, 1 s c in each of the next 10 s c, sl st in
next st, cut thread. Work 3 more leaves and join in same manner to
flower as first leaf, skipping 1 petal of flower between leaves.

1ST ROUND OF OUTER EDGE OF MOTIF: With right side of work toward you,
attach White in 6th s c on right hand side at bottom of leaf and working
around leaf, ch 9, d c in ch 5 loop, ** ch 6, d c in next ch 5 loop, *
ch 6, d c in next ch 5 loop, repeat from * twice, ch 6, d c in same
loop, * ch 6, d c in next ch 5 loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 6, skip 5
s c of same leaf, d c in next s c, ch 6, d c in center of flower petal,
ch 6, and working up side of next leaf, d c in 6th s c, ch 6, d c in
next ch 5 loop, repeat from ** twice, * ch 6, d c in next ch 5 loop,
repeat from * 3 times, ch 6, d c in same space, ch 6, d c in next ch 5
loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 6, skip 5 s c of same leaf, d c in next
s c, ch 6, d c in center of petal of flower, ch 6, join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Round. Sl st into loop, ch 3, d c in same loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same
loop, * ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3, 2 d c (shell) in next loop, repeat from * 9
times, ch 3, s c in next loop, s c in next loop, ch 3, shell in next
loop, repeat from 1st * all around ending to correspond, join.

3rd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 3, 1 d c, ch 3, 2 d c in same shell, **
ch 3, shell in next shell, * ch 3, shell in next shell, repeat from *
twice, ch 5, shell in next shell, ch 5, shell in next shell, * ch 3,
shell in next shell, repeat from * 3 times, ch 3, shell in next shell of
next leaf, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, ch 3, join.

4th Round. Sl st into shell, ch 6, sl st in 4th st from hook for picot,
d c in same shell, ch 3, sl st in top of d c just made for picot, d c in
same shell, ch 3, sl st in top of last d c made for picot, d c in same
shell (picot shell), * ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, work a picot shell
in next shell, repeat from * 9 times, ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, d c
in first shell of next leaf, picot, d c in same shell, ch 1, join to
center picot of last picot shell made, ch 1, slip st in top of last d c
made to complete picot, d c in same shell, picot, d c in same shell,
repeat from 1st all around ending to correspond and joining center picot
of last picot shell to center picot of 1st picot shell, cut thread.

Work another motif in same manner, joining it to 1st motif in last row
as follows: sl st into shell, work picot shell in same space, * ch 3, s
c in next loop, ch 3, picot shell in next shell, repeat from * 4 times,
* ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, 1 d c, picot, 1 d c in next shell, ch 1,
join to corresponding picot of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, 1 d c,
picot, 1 d c in same shell of 2nd motif, repeat from * once, * ch 3, s c
in next loop, ch 3, picot shell in next shell, repeat from * twice, ch
3, s c in next loop, ch 3, 1 d c, picot, 1 d c in next shell, ch 1, join
to center picot of last picot shell, ch 1, complete picot, 1 d c, picot,
1 d c in same shell, * ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, picot shell in next
shell, repeat from * once, * ch 3, s c in next loop, ch 3, 1 d c, picot,
1 d c in next shell, ch 1, join to corresponding picot of 1st motif, ch
1, complete picot, 1 d c, picot, 1 d c in same shell of 2nd motif,
repeat from * once, finish motif same as 1st motif.

Join 3rd motif to 2nd motif and 4th motif to 3rd and 1st motifs in same
manner.

JOINING MOTIF FOR SMALL OPENING: 1st Round—With Buttercup, ch 5, join to
form a ring, ch 3 and work 15 d c in ring, join, cut thread. Attach Red,
* ch 6, skip 3 d c, s c in next d c, repeat from * 3 times.

Next Round. Work 1 s c, 1 s d c, 5 d c in next loop, ch 1, join to
center picot of free picot shell, ch 1, sl st in top of last d c of
small motif, 5 d c, 1 s d c, 1 s c in same loop of small motif, * 1 s c,
1 s d c, 5 d c in next loop, ch 1, join to center picot of free picot
shell of next motif, ch 1, sl st in same d c of small motif, 5 d c, 1 s
d c, 1 s c in same loop of small motif, repeat from * twice, join, cut
thread.

DAISY JOINING MOTIF: With Buttercup, work 1st round same as for motif
for small opening, join, cut thread.

Next Round. Attach White in any d c, * ch 9, sl st in center picot of
free picot shell, working on ch work 1 s c in next st, 1 s d c in next
st, 1 d c in each of the next 2 sts, 1 tr c in next st, 1 d c in each of
the next 2 sts, 1 s d c in next st, 1 s c in next st, 1 s c in each of
the next 2 d c of Buttercup center, repeat from * 7 times, join, cut
thread. Work 21 more large motifs, 15 small joining motifs and 38 daisy
motifs, joining all in same manner.

EDGE: Attach White in joining of the 2 motifs to the right hand side
before corner, ch 11, ** s c in center picot of next picot shell, * ch
7, s c in center picot of next picot shell, repeat from * 3 times, ch 7,
1 tr c in joining picot of the 2 picot shells, * ch 7, s c in center
picot of next picot shell, repeat from * twice, * ch 9, s c in center
picot of next picot shell, repeat from * 3 times, ch 7, s c in center
picot of next picot shell, ch 7, s c in center picot of next picot
shell, ** ch 7, tr c in joining picot of the 2 picot shells, * ch 7, s c
in center picot of next picot shell, repeat from * 4 times, ch 7, tr c
in joining picot between motifs, * ch 7, s c in center picot of next
picot shell, repeat from * 4 times, repeat from last ** twice, ch 7, tr
c in joining picot of 2 picot shells, * ch 7, s c in center picot of
next picot shell, repeat from * 4 times, ch 7, tr c in joining picot
between motifs, ch 7, repeat from 1st ** all around ending to correspond
and joining in 4th st of ch.

2nd Round. Sl st into 2nd st of ch, ch 5, skip 1 st of ch, d c in next
st, * ch 2, skip next st, d c in next st, repeat from * 19 times, ch 2,
thread over hook, skip 1 st, insert hook in next st, pull through and
work off 2 loops, thread over hook, skip tr c and next st of ch, insert
in next st, pull through, work off 2 loops, thread over and work off all
loops at one time (a 2 d c cluster), * ch 2, skip next st, d c in next
st, repeat from * 40 times, ch 2, work a 2 d c cluster over next tr c
inserting hook in 2nd st on either side of tr c, * ch 2, skip 1 st, d c
in next st, repeat from * 20 times, ch 2, work a 2 d c cluster over next
tr c inserting hook in 2nd st on either side of tr c, continue all
around in same manner, joining last d c in 3rd st of ch 5.

3rd Round. Sl st to 2nd mesh, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, keeping last
loop of each d c on hook, thread over and work off all loops at one
time, ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st for picot, ch 3, cluster st in
same mesh (cluster st: 3 d c in same space, keeping last loop of each d
c on hook, thread over and work off all loops at one time), ch 3, sl st
in top of cluster st for picot, ch 3, skip 1 mesh, s c in next mesh, *
ch 3, skip one mesh, 3 d c cluster st in next mesh, picot, ch 3, 3 d c
cluster st in same mesh, picot, ch 3, skip 1 mesh, s c in next mesh,
repeat from * all around, join in 3rd st of ch, cut thread.




                            _Chair Back Set_


    [Illustration: Chair Back Set]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40
        _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        3 balls White.
    Steel crochet hook No. 7.

Chair back measures 16¼ inches x 11¼ inches.

Arm rests measure 7 inches x 11¼ inches.

CHAIR BACK: Ch 172, tr c in 5th st from hook, * ch 2, skip 2 sts of ch,
1 tr c in each of the next 7 sts, ch 2, skip 2 sts, 1 tr c in each of
the next 2 sts, ch 4, 2 d c in 4th st from hook keeping last loop of
each st on hook, thread over and pull through all loops at one time
(rice st), ch 5, rice st in 4th st from hook, skip 7 sts of ch, 1 tr c
in each of the next 2 sts, repeat from * 6 times, ch 2, skip 2 sts, 1 tr
c in each of the next 7 sts, ch 2, skip 2 sts, 1 tr c in each of the
last 2 sts, turn.

2nd Row. Ch 4 (counts as 1st tr c), tr c in next tr c, * ch 2, skip 1
mesh, 1 tr c in each of the next 7 tr c, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1 tr c in
each of the next 2 tr c, ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, sl st in ch
1 between the next 2 rice sts, ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, 1 tr c
in each of the next 2 tr c, repeat from * 6 times, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1
tr c in each of the next 7 tr c, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1 tr c in each of
the last 2 sts, turn.

3rd Row. Ch 4, tr c in next tr c, * ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1 tr c in each of
the next 7 tr c, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1 tr c in each of the next 2 tr c,
ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, ch 5, rice st in 4th st from hook, 1
tr c in each of the next 2 tr c, repeat from * 6 times, ch 2, skip 1
mesh, 1 tr c in each of the next 7 tr c, ch 2, skip 1 mesh, 1 tr c in
each of the last 2 sts, turn. Repeat the last 2 rows 15 times.

                                           _(continuation from page 15)_

Next Row. Ch 4, tr c in next tr c, ch 3, sl st in top of last tr c for
picot, ch 2, tr c in next tr c, ch 3, sl st in top of last tr c for
picot, 1 tr c in each of the next 3 tr c, ch 3 picot, 1 tr c in each of
the next 3 tr c, ch 3 picot, * ch 2, tr c in next tr c, ch 3 picot, tr c
in next tr c, ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, sl st in ch 1 between
next 2 rice sts, ch 4, rice st in 4th st from hook, tr c in next tr c,
tr c in next tr c, ch 3 picot, ch 2, tr c in next tr c, ch 3 picot, 1 tr
c in each of the next 3 tr c, ch 3 picot, 1 tr c in each of the next 3
tr c, ch 3 picot, repeat from * across row ending with ch 2, tr c in
next tr c, ch 3 picot, tr c in next st, cut thread. Work a row of s c
across top of work.

ARM RESTS: Ch 84 and work in same manner as chair back.




                _Pillowcase with Motif Insert and Edge_


                          (pictured on page 4)

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, size 30 _or_
      “STAR” CROCHET COTTON, Article 20, size 30
        2 balls White.
        1 ball Lt. Yellow or Buttercup.
    Steel crochet hook No. 12.

MOTIF: With Lt. Yellow ch 9, join to form a ring, ch 3, 2 d c in same
space keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and work off
all loops at one time, * ch 3, cluster st in ring, (cluster st: 3 d c in
same space keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and work
off all loops at one time), repeat from * 6 times, ch 3, join in 1st
cluster st.

2nd Row. Ch 1, * 2 s c in next loop, ch 3, 2 s c in same loop, repeat
from * all around, join in 1st s c, cut Yellow.

3rd Row. Attach White in ch 3 loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, * ch 4, 2
d c, ch 3, 2 d c (shell) in next ch 3 loop, ch 4, 3 d c in next loop,
repeat from * all around ending with ch 4, 2 d c, ch 3, 2 d c in next
loop, ch 4, join.

4th Row. Ch 3, d c in same space, ** 1 d c in next d c, 2 d c in next d
c, ch 4, 2 tr c in next shell keeping last loop of each tr c on hook,
thread over and work off all loops at one time (2 tr c cluster st), ch
3, 2 tr c cluster st in same space, repeat from * twice, ch 4, 2 d c in
next d c, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond, ch 4, join.

5th Row. Sl st to next d c, ch 3, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d c
keeping last loop of each d c on hook, thread over and work off all
loops at one time, ** ch 3, sl st in top of cluster st just made for
picot, ch 5, skip 1 loop, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop, ch 4, sl st in
3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, 2 tr c cluster st in same loop, ch 4,
sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1 (picot loop), 2 tr c cluster
st in next loop, * ch 4, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, 2 tr
c cluster st in same loop, repeat from * once, ch 4, sl st in 3rd st
from hook for picot, ch 1, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop, ch 4, sl st
in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, 2 tr c cluster st in same loop, ch
5, skip 1 d c, 3 d c cluster st over next 3 d c, repeat from ** all
around ending to correspond, ch 5, join, cut thread.

Work a 2nd motif joining it to 1st motif in last row as follows: sl st
to next d c, ch 3, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d c keeping last loop of
each d c on hook, thread over and work off all loops at one time, picot,
ch 5, skip 1 loop, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop, picot loop, 2 tr c
cluster st in same space, picot loop, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop, *
picot loop, 2 tr c cluster st in same space, repeat from * once, ch 3,
join to corresponding picot of 1st motif, ch 1, sl st in 2nd st of ch to
complete picot, ch 1, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop of 2nd motif, ch 3,
join to next picot of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, ch 1, 2 tr c
cluster st in same space of 2nd motif, ch 5, skip 1 d c, 3 d c cluster
st over next 3 d c, picot, ch 5, skip 1 loop of 2nd motif, 2 tr c
cluster st in next loop, ch 3, join to corresponding picot on same side
of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, ch 1, 2 tr c in same space of 2nd
motif, ch 3, join to next picot of 1st motif, ch 1, complete picot, ch
1, 2 tr c cluster st in next loop of 2nd motif, finish motif same as 1st
motif. Join all motifs in same manner having 3 motifs in 1st row, 2
motifs in 2nd row and 1 motif in 3rd row.

EDGE: Having scallops facing downward, attach Yellow in picot over the 3
d c cluster st to right hand side of corner of top motif, ch 4, s c in
same picot, * ch 4, d c in 4th st from hook (rice st), 2 s c in next
picot of same motif, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 4, s c in same space,
* rice st, 2 s c in next picot of same motif, repeat from * 3 times,
rice st, 2 s c in 1st free picot of next motif, * rice st, 2 s c in next
picot, repeat from * 3 times, repeat from ** once, ch 4, s c in same
space, * rice st, 2 s c in next picot, repeat from * 6 times, ** ch 4, 2
s c in same space, * rice st, 2 s c in next picot, repeat from * 6
times, ch 4, 2 s c in same space, * rice st, 2 s c in next picot, repeat
from * 3 times, rice st, skip 1 picot at corner of next motif, s c in
the tr c cluster st between picots, rice st, 2 s c in 1st free picot of
next motif, * rice st, 2 s c in next picot, repeat from * 3 times,
repeat from last ** once, ch 4, s c in same space, * rice st, 2 s c in
next picot, repeat from * 6 times, ch 4, s c in same space, * rice st, 2
s c in next picot, repeat from * 6 times, finish side to correspond, cut
thread.

SMALL JOINING MOTIF FOR CENTER: With Yellow work 1st row same as 1st row
of motif.

2nd Row: Ch 1, 2 s c in next loop, ch 1, join to free picot of motif, ch
1, 2 s c in same space of small motif, * 2 s c in next loop, ch 1, join
to next picot of same motif, ch 1, 2 s c in same space of small motif, 2
s c in next loop, ch 1, join to 1st free picot of next motif, ch 1, 2 s
c in same space of small motif, repeat from * until all picots are
joined, cut thread. Applique crocheted insert to front of pillowcase as
illustrated, having the scallops to lower edge. Cut away material from
underneath motifs leaving 1/8 inch to turn under and overcast.

EDGE: Attach White in 1st hemstitched space next to motif and work a row
of s c around lower edge to opposite side, cut thread.

Next Row. Attach White in 1st s c at opposite side of insert, ch 3, d c
in same space, * ch 4, sl st in 3rd st from hook for picot, ch 1, skip 3
s c, 2 d c cluster st in next s c, repeat from * to opposite side of
insert, cut thread.

Next Row. Attach Yellow in motif next to 1 d c cluster st, sl st in 1st
picot of edge, * ch 3, d c in 3rd st from hook, sl st in next picot,
repeat from * to opposite side, join in side of motif, cut thread. Work
another pillowcase in same manner.




                       _Hot Plate Mats or Covers_


    [Illustration: Hot Plate Mats or Covers]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40 _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        2 balls Shaded Yellows or color desired and
        1 ball each Kelly Green and White will make the small mat or
              cover.
        1 additional ball Shaded Yellows is needed to make both mats.
    Steel crochet hook No. 6 or No. 7.


                          _SMALL MAT OR COVER_

The following directions are for a 7x12 inch oval.

With Shaded Yellows ch 5, join to form a ring, ch 5, d c in ring, * ch
2, d c in ring, repeat from * 5 times, ch 2, join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Round. Over each loop work 1 s c, 5 d c, 1 s c, join.

3rd Round. * Ch 5, sl st in back of work between next 2 petals, repeat
from * 7 times.

4th Round. Over each loop work 1 s c, 7 d c, 1 s c, join.

5th Round. * Ch 6, sl st in back of work between next 2 petals, repeat
from * all around, cut thread.

6th Round. Attach Green and work 1 s c, 1 d c, 7 tr c, 1 d c, 1 s c over
each loop, join, cut thread.

2nd FLOWER: Work 1st 5 rounds same as 1st flower.

Next Round. Attach Green and work 1 s c, 1 d c, 4 tr c in same loop,
join to center st of any Green petal of 1st flower (to join: slip loop
off hook, insert in center st of petal of 1st flower, pick up loop and
pull through), 3 tr c, 1 d c, 1 s c in same space of 2nd flower, 1 s c,
1 d c, 4 tr c in next loop of 2nd flower, join to center st of next
petal of 1st flower, 3 tr c, 1 d c, 1 s c in same space of 2nd flower,
finish round same as 1st flower. Work 3rd flower in same manner, joining
to 2 center petals of 2nd flower leaving 2 petals free at top and lower
edge between joinings, cut thread.

Attach White between the 3rd and 4th free petal of end flower, ch 7, * s
c in 2nd tr c of next petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s c in next tr c, ch 3,
tr c between petals, ch 3, repeat from * once, s c in 2nd tr c of next
petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s c in next tr c, ch 3, tr c between next 2
petals keeping last loop of tr c on hook, tr c in joining keeping last
loop of tr c on hook, tr c between next 2 petals of next flower, keeping
last loop of tr c on hook, thread over and work off all loops at one
time (a tr c cluster), ch 3, s c in 2nd tr c of next petal, ch 5, skip 3
tr c, s c in next tr c, ch 3, tr c between petals, ch 3, s c in 2nd tr c
of next petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s c in next tr c, ch 3, work a tr c
cluster between flowers, * ch 3, s c in 2nd tr c of next petal, ch 5,
skip 3 tr c, s c in next tr c, ch 3, tr c between petals, repeat from *
4 times, ch 3, s c in 2nd tr c of next petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s c in
next tr c, ch 3, tr c cluster between flowers, finish round to
correspond joining last ch 3 in 4th st of ch.

2nd Round. Sl st into loop, ch 6, d c in same space, * ch 1, 1 d c, ch
3, 1 d c (shell) in next loop, repeat from * 6 times, ch 1, 1 tr c, ch
3, 1 tr c in tr c cluster, skip the ch 3 loop, * ch 1, shell in next
loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 1, 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next tr c
cluster, skip the ch 3 loop, * ch 1, shell in next loop, repeat from *
15 times, ch 1, 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in next tr c cluster, skip the ch 3
loop, * ch 1, shell in next loop, repeat from * 3 times, ch 1, 1 tr c,
ch 3, 1 tr c in next tr c cluster, skip the ch 3 loop, * ch 1, shell in
next loop, repeat from * 7 times, ch 1, join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Round. Sl st into shell, ch 3, 1 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in same space, * 2
d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in next shell, repeat from * all around, join.

4th Round. Sl st to center of shell, * ch 7, s c in center of next
shell, repeat from * all around, cut White.

5th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in any loop, ch 3, 5 d c, ch 3, 6 d c
over same loop, * 6 d c, ch 3, 6 d c over next loop, repeat from * all
around, join.

                                           _(continuation from page 10)_

6th Round. Ch 3, 1 d c in each d c and 2 d c, ch 3, 2 d c in each ch 3
loop, join.

7th Round. Ch 4, 1 tr c in each d c and 2 tr c, ch 3, 2 tr c in each ch
3 loop, join, cut thread.

8th Round. Attach White in ch 3 loop, ch 3, 1 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in same
space, * ch 1, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in next ch 3 loop, repeat from
* all around, ch 1, join.

9th Round. Sl st to center of shell, ch 3, 2 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in same
space, * ch 1, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c (shell) in center of next shell,
repeat from * all around, ch 1, join, cut thread.

10th Round. Attach Green in center of shell, ch 3, 2 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in
same space, ch 1, s c in the ch 1 between shells, * ch 1, 3 d c, ch 2, 3
d c in center of next shell, ch 1, s c in the ch 1 between shells,
repeat from * all around, ch 1, join, cut thread.

11th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in any s c, * ch 1, 1 s c in each of
the next 3 d c of next shell, 1 s c, ch 3, 1 s c in center of same
shell, 1 s c in each of the next 3 d c of same shell, ch 1, s c in next
s c, repeat from * all around, join, cut thread.

CASING: With wrong side of work toward you, attach White between shells
of 9th round, * ch 7, s c in the ch 1 between next 2 shells, repeat from
* all around.

Next Round. Sl st to center of loop, * ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat
from * all around.

Next Round. Same as last round but having 5 chs in each loop, cut
thread.


                          _LARGE MAT OR COVER_

The following directions are for a 10 x 15½ inch oval.

Work flowers for center same as small mat but working 4 flowers instead
of 3 and joining in same manner.

Attach White and work in same manner as 1st round of small mat working
over 3rd flower same as over 2nd flower and working a tr c cluster
between 3rd and 4th flowers.

2nd Round. Same as 2nd round of small mat but working shells across 3rd
flower same as across 2nd flower and working 1 tr c, ch 3, 1 tr c in the
tr c cluster between the 3rd and 4th flowers.

3rd Round. Same as 3rd round of small mat.

4th & 5th Rounds. Sl st to center of shell, ch 3, 1 d c, ch 2, 2 d c in
same space, * 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in center of next shell, repeat
from * all around, join.

Repeat the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th rounds of small mat.

12th Round. Same as last round, cut White.

Next Round. Attach Green and work same as 10th round of small mat.

Next Round. Attach Shaded Yellows and work same as 11th round of small
mat.

CASING: Work same as for small cover attaching thread in 10th round, but
having 3 rounds of 7 ch loops instead of 2 rounds.

    [Illustration: _Napkin Holder Cover directions on page 10_]




                             _Large Doily_


    [Illustration: Large Doily]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40 _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        3 balls Shaded Yellows.
        2 balls Kelly Green.
        2 balls White.
    Steel crochet hook No. 6 or No. 7.

CENTER: Work 1st 6 rounds same as Hot Plate Mat cover on page 8.

7th Round. Attach White in 2nd tr c of Green petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s
c in next tr c. * ch 3, tr c between petals, ch 3, s c in 2nd tr c of
next Green petal, ch 5, skip 3 tr c, s c in next tr c, repeat from * all
around ending with ch 3, tr c between petals, ch 3, join.

8th Round. Sl st into loop, ch 6, d c in same loop, * 1 d c, ch 3, 1 d c
in next loop, repeat from * all around, join in 3rd st of ch.

9th Round. Sl st into loop, * ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * all
around, cut thread.

10th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in loop, ch 3, 4 d c in same loop, ch
3, 5 d c in same loop, * 5 d c, ch 3, 5 d c in next loop, repeat from *
all around, join.

11th Round. Ch 3, work 1 d c in each d c and 2 d c, ch 3, 2 d c in each
ch 3 loop, join, cut thread.

12th Round. Attach White in ch 3 at point, s c in same space, * ch 7, s
c in ch 3 of next point, repeat from * all around, ch 7, join.

13th Round. * Ch 6, s c in next loop, ch 6, s c in next s c, repeat from
* all around ending with ch 3, d c in same space as beginning (this
brings thread in position for next round).

14th Round. * Ch 6, s c in next loop, repeat from * all around ending
with ch 3, d c in d c. Repeat the 14th round twice.

17th Round. * Ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat from * all around ending
with ch 7, s c in d c, cut thread.

Next 5 Rounds. Repeat 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th rounds.

23rd & 24th Rounds. Same as last round but ending 24th round with ch 6,
s c in d c, cut thread.

25th Round. Attach Green in loop, * ch 5, s c in next loop, ch 7, sl st
in top of s c just made for picot, ch 7, sl st in same space, ch 7, sl
st in same space (3 picot cluster), ch 5, s c in next loop, repeat from
* all around ending to correspond, cut Green.

26th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in any s c, * ch 4, sl st in 1st loop
of next 3 picot cluster, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same 3 picot
cluster, ch 3, sl st in same loop (picot loop), ch 3, sl st in next loop
of same picot cluster, ch 4, sl st in next s c, repeat from * all
around, join, cut thread.

MOTIFS AROUND CENTER: Work 1st 16 rounds same as center but ending last
round with ch 6, s c in d c, cut thread.

17th Round. Attach Green and work same as 25th round of center.

18th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in any s c, ch 4, sl st in 1st loop of
next 3 picot cluster, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same 3 picot cluster,
ch 1, join to picot loop of any scallop of center, ch 1, sl st in same
space on motif, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same 3 picot cluster, ch 4,
sl st in next s c on motif, * ch 4, sl st in 1st loop of next 3 picot
cluster, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same picot cluster, ch 1, join to
picot loop in middle of next scallop on center, ch 1, sl st in same
space on motif, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same picot cluster, ch 4, sl
st in next s c on motif, repeat from * once, * ch 4, sl st in 1st loop
of next 3 picot cluster, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same 3 picot
cluster, ch 3, sl st in same space, ch 3, sl st in next loop of same 3
picot cluster, ch 4, sl st in next s c, repeat from * all around, cut
thread. Work a 2nd motif in same manner and having large center to top
of work, join center of 2 scallops to center of 2 scallops on left hand
side of 1st motif leaving 2 scallops free at inside edge of 1st motif,
then work 2 more scallops on 2nd motif, leave 3 scallops free on center,
join next 3 scallops of motif to next 3 scallops of center joining same
as 1st motif was joined. Work 6 more motifs and join in same manner
always leaving 3 scallops free on center between joinings and 2 scallops
free on inside edge of each motif. Join last motif to 1st motif to
correspond.

SMALL JOINING MOTIF: With Green ch 6, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work
14 d c in ring, join in 3rd st of ch, cut thread.

Attach Shaded Yellows in same space, s c in same space, * ch 5, sl st in
top of s c for picot, ch 3, join to picot loop at center of 1st free
scallop of motif, ch 3, sl st in same space of small motif, ch 5, sl st
in same space, 1 s c in each of the next 3 d c, ch 5, sl st in top of
last s c for picot, ch 3, join to picot loop at center of next free
scallop of same motif, ch 3, sl st in same space of small motif, ch 5,
sl st in same space, 1 s c in each of the next 3 d c, repeat from * once
but joining to center picot loop of 2 free scallops of next motif, ch 5,
sl st in top of last s c for picot, ch 3, skip 1 scallop of center, join
to picot loop at center of next scallop, ch 3, sl st in same space on
small motif, ch 5, sl st in same space, 1 s c in each of the next 2 d c,
join in 1st s c, cut thread. Work a joining motif in each of the next 7
spaces around center.




                         _Napkin Holder Cover_


                          _(pictured on pg. 9)_

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40 _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        1 ball each White, Shaded Yellows and Kelly Green.
    Steel crochet hook No. 6 or No. 7.
    1 Napkin Holder 5 inches in diameter.

Work 1st 11 rounds same as Large Doily on page 9.

12th Round. Attach White in ch 3 at point, ch 3, d c in same space, * ch
1, 2 d c, ch 2, 2 d c (shell) in next ch 3 loop, repeat from * all
around, ch 1, join.

13th Round. Attach Green in center of shell, ch 3, 2 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in
same space, ch 1, s c in ch 1 between shells, * ch 1, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c
in center of next shell, ch 1, s c in ch 1 between shells, repeat from *
all around, ch 1, join, cut thread.

14th Round. Attach Shaded Yellows in any s c, * ch 1, 1 s c in each of
the next 3 d c of next shell, 1 s c, ch 3, 1 s c in center of shell, 1 s
c in each of the next 3 d c of same shell, ch 1, s c in next s c, repeat
from * all around, join, cut thread.

CASING: With wrong side of work toward you, attach White between shells
of 12th round, * ch 7, s c in ch 1 between next 2 shells, repeat from *
to within the last 6 shells, turn.

Next Row. Sl st to center of loop, * ch 7, s c in next loop, repeat from
* to same space as opposite side, turn.

Next Row. Same as last row but having 5 chs in each loop, cut thread.
Work another section in same manner.




                      _Notepaper and Pencil Case_


    [Illustration: Notepaper and Pencil Case]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “STAR” BLEND YARN, Article 75
        2 skeins Red.
        1 skein White.
    Steel crochet hook No. 00.
    1 pencil
    1 pad 3 inches x 5 inches.

BACK SECTION: With Red ch 38, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each
remaining st of ch, ch 1 to turn all rows.

2nd Row. 1 s c in each s c. Repeat the last row 26 times, cut yarn.

TOP SECTION: Work 1st 10 rows same as back section.

11th Row. 1 s c in each of the 1st 28 s c, turn.

Next 14 Rows. 1 s c in each s c, cut yarn. With wrong side of 10th row
toward you, attach yarn in 1st free st and work 1 s c in each s c.

Next 14 Rows. 1 s c in each s c.

Next Row. 1 s c in each s c, 1 s c in each of the 28 sts of opposite
side, turn.

Next 2 Rows. 1 s c in each s c, cut yarn at end of last row.

PENCIL HOLDER: With Red ch 3, s c in 2nd st from hook, s c in next st of
ch, ch 1, turn.

2nd Row. 2 s c in each s c, drop Red, turn.

3rd Row. Attach White, 2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each of the next 2 s
c, 2 s c in next s c, ch 1 to turn all rows.

4th Row. 1 s c in each s c, drop White. (When changing colors always
complete last half of last st worked with next color.) Working even in s
c work 2 rows Red, 2 rows White until there are 6 stripes of each color.
Work 2 more rows in Red, cut yarn. Sew to upper section to the left of
pad opening leaving last row free. Cut a piece of cardboard to fit upper
section. Place between the 2 sections made and overcast the sections
together.

FLAP: With Red ch 33, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1 s c in each remaining
st of ch, ch 1 to turn all rows.

Next 19 Rows. 1 s c in each s c.

Next Row. 1 s c in each of the 1st 31 sts, 3 s c in next st, work 17 s c
across the short edge working 3 s c in next corner st, work 31 s c up
next long side working on opposite side of starting ch, cut yarn.

With right side of work toward you, attach White in 2nd st of long side,
ch 3, 3 d c in same space, drop loop from hook, insert in 3rd st of ch,
pull loop through, ch 1 to tighten st, * ch 1, skip 1 s c, popcorn st in
next s c (popcorn st: 4 d c in same space, drop loop from hook, insert
in 1st d c, pull loop through, ch 1 to tighten st), repeat from * 14
times, ch 1, popcorn st in next s c, ch 1, popcorn st in next s c, * ch
1, skip 1 s c, popcorn st in next s c, repeat from * 8 times, ch 1,
popcorn st in next s c, ch 1, popcorn st in next s c, * ch 1, skip 1 s
c, popcorn st in next s c, repeat from * 14 times, cut yarn.

Next Row. With right side of work toward you, attach White in 1st
popcorn st, work a row of s c around the 3 sides working 1 s c in each
st and 3 s c in center popcorn st at each corner, cut yarn. Sew plain
side of flap to top of under section.




                          _Lantern Potholder_


    [Illustration: Lantern Potholder]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40
        _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        1 ball Shaded Nile Greens.
        1 ball Lt. Yellow or Buttercup.
    Steel crochet hook No. 7.

With Lt. Yellow ch 8, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work 19 d c in ring,
join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Round. Ch 3, d c in same space, * popcorn st in next d c (popcorn
st: 5 d c in same st, drop loop from hook, insert in 1st d c, pick up
loop and pull through, do not ch 1), 2 d c in next d c, repeat from *
all around, ending with popcorn st in next st, join in 3rd st of ch, cut
thread.

3rd Round. Attach Shaded Greens in same space, ch 3, d c in same space,
* d c in next d c, d c in next popcorn st, d c in next d c, 2 d c in
next d c, ch 2, 2 d c in next popcorn st, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d
c, 1 d c in next popcorn st, 2 d c in next d c, ch 2, 2 d c in next d c,
1 d c in next popcorn st, 1 d c in each of the next 2 d c, 2 d c in next
popcorn st, ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from * all around ending to
correspond, ch 2, join.

4th Round. Ch 3, d c in same space, 1 d c in each of the next 5 d c, 2 d
c in next d c, * ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, 1 d c in each of the next 5 d
c, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from * all around, ch 2, join.

5th Round. Ch 3, d c in same space, ** popcorn st in next st, * d c in
next st, popcorn st in next st, repeat from * twice, 2 d c in next d c,
ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from ** all around ending to correspond,
ch 2, join, cut thread.

6th Round. Attach Lt. Yellow in same space, ch 3, d c in same space, * d
c in next d c, d c in next popcorn st, repeat from * 3 times, d c in
next d c, 2 d c in next d c, ch 2, 2 d c in next d c, repeat from 1st *
all around ending to correspond, ch 2, join, cut thread.

Work 7 more motifs in same manner.

                                           _(continuation from page 14)_

TO JOIN MOTIFS: Place 2 motifs wrong sides together and working on right
side, attach Lt. Yellow in ch 2 loop, inserting hook through both
motifs, then working through back loop of sts only and through both
motifs, work 1 sl st in each of the next 13 d c, 1 sl st in each of the
next 2 sts of ch, 1 sl st in each of the next 13 d c, cut thread. Join
3rd motif to 2nd motif in same manner leaving 1 d c section free at top
and lower edge of each motif. Join 3 more motifs together in same manner
joining opposite side of 6th motif to side of 1st motif to form circle.
Place a motif in top opening and crochet together with sl sts matching
each d c section. Place last motif in position in lower opening and
finish in same manner.

RING: With Lt. Yellow ch 23, sl st in 2nd st from hook, 1 sl st in each
remaining st of ch, cut thread, leaving an end. Sew to holder as
illustrated.




                           _Lampshade Cover_


    [Illustration: Lampshade Cover]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      “GEM” CROCHET COTTON, Article 35, Size 20 or Size 30
        2 balls White
    Steel crochet hook No. 7.
    Lampshade 4½ inches in diameter at top, 8½ inches in diameter at
          bottom, 6 inches in height. Shade cover is worked rather
          loosely.
    ¾ yd, ½ inch ribbon, ½ yd. round elastic.

* Ch 5, tr c in 5th st from hook, repeat from * 32 times. Work should
measure about 15 inches, join being careful not to twist work.

2nd Round. Ch 12, tr c in same st where 1st tr c was made, * ch 8, tr c
in st where next tr c was made, repeat from * 30 times, ch 8, join in
4th st of ch (33 meshes).

3rd Round. Ch 1, s c in next mesh, * ch 5, s c in same mesh, s c in next
mesh, repeat from * all around ending with ch 5, s c in same mesh, join
in 1st s c.

4th Round. Sl st to center of loop, * ch 5, s c in next loop, repeat
from * all around.

5th Round. Sl st into 1st loop, ch 5, s c in same loop, * ch 2, skip 1
loop, 2 tr c with ch 2 between in next loop, ch 2, 2 d tr c (3 times
over hook) with ch 2 between in same loop, ch 2, 2 tr c with ch 2
between in same loop (shell), ch 2, skip 1 loop, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in
next loop, repeat from * all around (there will be a ch 5 loop in 1st
mesh and a ch 5 loop in last mesh in this round). Do not join. Place a
marker at beginning of each round.

                                           _(continuation from page 14)_

6th Round. Ch 2, shell in 1st ch 5 loop, ch 2, * 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in
center of next shell, ch 2, shell in next ch 5 loop, repeat from * all
around.

7th Round. Ch 2, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in center of 1st shell, * ch 2,
shell in next ch 5 loop, ch 2, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in center of next
shell, repeat from * all around. Repeat the last 2 rounds twice.

12th Round. Same as 6th round but having ch 3 before and after each
shell.

13th Round. Same as 7th round but having ch 3 before and after each
shell. Repeat the last 2 rounds once.

16th Round. * Ch 3, 2 tr c, 3 d tr c, 2 tr c with ch 2 between each st
in next ch 5 loop, ch 3, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in center of next shell,
repeat from * all around ending with ch 3, 2 tr c, 3 d tr c, 2 tr c with
ch 2 between each st in next ch 5 loop.

17th Round. * Ch 3, s c between 1st 2 d tr c of next shell, ch 5, s c in
next loop of same shell, ch 3, 2 tr c, 3 d tr c, 2 tr c with ch 2
between each st in next ch 5 loop, repeat from * all around ending with
ch 3, s c between 1st 2 d tr c of next shell, ch 5, s c in next loop of
same shell.

18th Round. * Ch 3, 2 tr c, 3 d tr c, 2 tr c with ch 2 between each st
in next ch 5 loop, ch 3, s c between 1st 2 d tr c of next shell, ch 5, s
c in next loop of same shell, ch 5, repeat from * all around ending to
correspond.

19th Round. Same as 17th round.

20th Round. Work in same manner as 18th round but having 3 tr c, 2 d tr
c, 3 tr c with ch 2 between each st in each shell.

21st Round. * Ch 3, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in center of next shell, ch 3, 3
tr c, 2 d tr c, 3 tr c with ch 2 between each st in next ch 5 loop,
repeat from * all around ending to correspond.

22nd Round. * Ch 2, work a shell of 2 tr c, 2 d tr c, 2 tr c with ch 2
between each st in next ch 5 loop, ch 2, skip 1 loop of next shell, 1 s
c, ch 5, 1 s c in next loop of same shell, Ch 2, skip 1 loop of same
shell, work a shell of 2 tr c, 2 d tr c, 2 tr c with ch 2 between each
st in next loop, ch 2, skip 1 loop of same shell, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in
next loop, repeat from * all around ending to correspond. All shells are
worked in same manner for remainder of lampshade cover.

23rd Round. * Ch 2, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in center of next shell, ch 2,
shell in next ch 5 loop, repeat from * all around ending to correspond.

24th Round. * Ch 2, shell in next ch 5 loop, ch 2, 1 s c, ch 5, 1 s c in
center of next shell, repeat from * all around ending to correspond.
Repeat the last 2 rounds once.

27th Round. Same as 23rd round, cut thread.

LOWER RUFFLE: With right side of work toward you, attach thread in 1st
loop of shell of 26th round leaving last round free and working on the
26th round, * ch 5, s c in next loop of same shell, repeat from * 3
times, ch 5, s c in next ch 2 loop, ch 5, s c in center loop of next
shell of previous round (same space where the ch 5 loop of 26th round
was made), ch 5, s c in next ch 2 loop, ch 5, s c in 1st loop of next
shell, repeat from * all around.

2nd Round. Sl st into loop, ch 3, 2 d c in same space, * ch 4, 3 d c in
next loop, repeat from * all around, ch 4, join.

3rd Round. Sl st into 1st loop, ch 5, tr c in same loop, * ch 1, tr c in
same loop, repeat from * 3 times, * ch 3, 6 tr c with ch 1 between each
tr c in next loop, repeat from * all around, ch 3, join in 4th st of ch.

4th Round. Ch 1, s c in same space, ** ch 3, sl st in top of s c for
picot, * s c in next ch 1 space, s c in next tr c, ch 3, sl st in top of
s c for picot, repeat from * 4 times, 2 s c in next loop, ch 3, sl st in
top of last s c for picot, s c in same loop, s c in next tr c, repeat
from ** all around ending to correspond, cut thread.

TOP RUFFLE: Holding 1st round toward you, attach thread in any loop of
2nd round, ch 3, 2 d c, ch 3, 3 d c in same loop, * ch 3, 3 d c, ch 3, 3
d c in next loop of 2nd round, repeat from * all around, ch 3, join.

2nd Round. Same as 3rd round of lower ruffle.

3rd Round. Ch 5, ** tr c in next loop of same shell, ch 1, tr c in next
loop of same shell, * ch 1, tr c in next tr c of same shell, ch 1, tr c
in next loop of same shell, repeat from * once, ch 1, tr c in next loop
of same shell, ch 1, tr c in next tr c of same shell, ch 3, tr c in 1st
tr c of next shell, ch 1, repeat from ** all around ending to
correspond, join in 4th st of ch.

4th Round. Same as 4th round of lower ruffle but repeating from * 7
times instead of 4 times. Starch lightly. Lace ribbon through beading at
top. Lace elastic through center of shells of last round. This round
fits to inside of shade.




                       _Baby Booties Pin Cushion_


    [Illustration: Baby Booties Pin Cushion]

  Materials Required:
    AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY
      The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON, Article 40
        _or_
      “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON, Article 346
        1 ball Lt. Blue or color desired.
    Steel crochet hook No. 6 or No. 7.
    3 yds. narrow White Ribbon.
    ⅛ yd. White Satin.

FRONT SECTION: Starting at center front, ch 13, 2 s c in 2nd st from
hook, 1 s c in each of the next 10 sts of ch, 2 s c in last st, ch 3,
turn.

2nd Row. Working in back loop of sts only, 2 d c in 1st s c, 1 d c in
each of the next 12 s c, 3 d c in last s c, ch 1, turn.

3rd Row. Working in both loops of sts, 2 s c in 1st d c, 2 s c in next d
c, 1 s c in each of the next 14 d c, 2 s c in next d c, 2 s c in 3rd st
of ch, turn.

4th Row. Ch 3, working in back loop of sts only, work in d c increasing
1 d c at the beginning and end of row, ch 1, turn.

5th Row. Working in both loops of sts, work in s c increasing 1 s c at
the beginning and end of row. Repeat the last 2 rows 3 times.

Next 4 Rows. Continue working in same manner, but do not increase in any
row.

Next Row. Working in back loop of sts only, work 1 d c in each of the
next 2 s c, 1 tr c in each of the next 10 s c, 1 d c in each of the next
12 s c, 1 tr c in each of the next 10 s c, 1 d c in each of the next 3 s
c, do not turn. Work a row of s c around entire section, join in 1st s
c, cut thread.

BACK SECTION: Starting at lower edge, ch 57, s c in 2nd st from hook, 1
s c in each remaining st of ch, ch 3, turn.

                                           _(continuation from page 14)_

2nd Row. Working in back loop of sts only, work 1 d c in each s c, ch 1,
turn.

3rd Row. Working in both loops of sts, work in s c decreasing 1 s c at
the beginning and end of row (to decrease: * insert hook in next st,
pull loop through, repeat from * once, thread over and work off all
loops at one time), ch 3, turn.

4th Row. Working in back loop of sts, work in d c decreasing 1 d c at
the beginning and end of row (to decrease: * thread over hook, insert in
next st, pull loop through, thread over and work off 2 loops, repeat
from * once, thread over and work off all loops at one time). Repeat the
last 2 rows 3 times, do not turn. Work a row of s c around entire
section, join in 1st s c, cut thread.

SOLES: Ch 21, 4 d c in 4th st from hook (center front), 1 d c in each of
the next 16 sts of ch, 5 d c in last st (center back), working on
opposite side of starting ch, work 1 d c in each of the next 16 sts,
join in 3rd st of ch.

2nd Round. Ch 3, d c in same space, 2 d c in each of the next 4 d c, 1 d
c in each of the next 16 d c, 2 d c in each of the next 5 d c, 1 d c in
each of the next 16 d c, join in 3rd st of ch.

3rd Round. Ch 3, d c in same space, 2 d c in each of the next 9 d c, 1 d
c in each of the next 16 d c, 2 d c in each of the next 10 d c, 1 d c in
each of the next 16 d c, join in 3rd st of ch.

4th Round. Ch 3, 1 d c in each of the next 6 d c, 2 d c in each of the
next 6 d c, 1 d c in each of the next 7 d c, 1 s d c in each of the next
5 d c (s d c: thread over hook, insert in st, pull loop through, thread
over and pull through all loops at one time), 1 s c in each of the next
6 d c, 1 s d c in each of the next 5 d c, 1 d c in each of the next 7 d
c, 2 d c in each of the next 6 d c, 1 d c in each of the next 7 d c, 1 s
d c in each of the next 5 d c, 1 s c in each of the next 6 d c, 1 s d c
in each of the next 5 d c, join in 3rd st of ch.

5th Round. Ch 3, 1 d c in each of the next 8 d c, 2 d c in each of the
next 8 d c, 1 d c in each of the next 13 sts, 1 s d c in each of the
next 4 sts, 1 s c in each of the next 7 sts, 1 s d c in each of the next
4 sts, 1 d c in each of the next 6 sts, 2 d c in each of the next 8 sts,
1 d c in each of the next 6 sts, 1 s d c in each of the next 4 sts, 1 s
c in each of the next 7 sts, 1 s d c in each of the next 4 sts, 1 d c in
each remaining st, join, cut thread. Work another sole in same manner.
Cut cardboard same size as sole. Place between soles and overcast
together. Sew back section to sole. Sew front section to soles,
overlapping back section at sides and leaving 3 rows free at each end of
front section.

CUSHION: Cut a piece of satin 4½ x 5½ inches. Sew the 2 long sides
together. Fill with kapok and sew free ends, pulling thread so that ends
will be rounded. Place in bootie and tack in position. Make a rosette of
ribbon making 10 loops and allowing about 2¼ inches for each loop.

CENTER OF ROSETTE: Ch 4, join to form a ring, ch 3 and work 17 d c in
ring, join.

2nd Round. Ch 3, sl st in same space, * skip 1 d c, sl st in next d c,
ch 3, sl st in same space, repeat from * all around, join, cut thread
leaving a length for sewing. Sew to center of rosette and tack rosette
to slipper.

Cut 2 lengths of ribbon 26 inches long. Lace under 6 d c’s of 6th row
from top at center of back of slipper, knot close to slipper and tack
under knot. Make a bow and sew to free ends of ribbon. Work another
bootie in same manner.




                          _Crocheted Necktie_


    [Illustration: Crocheted Necktie]

 Make this tie with any of the AMERICAN THREAD COMPANY products listed
                                 below:

                _Material_                    _Quantity_      _Size of
                                                               Needle_

  The Famous “PURITAN” CROCHET COTTON     2 balls Red or      steel 10
  Article 40                              color desired
                   _or_
  “DE LUXE” Quality CROCHET COTTON        2 balls Red or      steel 10
  Article 346                             color desired
                   _or_
  “STAR” PEARL COTTON Article 90, size 5  4 balls Lt. Red     steel 10
                                          or color desired

  ¼ yd. ½ inch ribbon.

GAUGE: 2 shells = 2 inches.

Tie is worked firmly.

Ch 25, 3 d c in 5th st from hook, skip 3 sts of ch, s c in next st, * ch
2, 3 d c in same space, skip 3 sts of ch, s c in next st, repeat from *
3 times (5 shells), ch 4, turn.

2nd Row. 3 d c in same space, * s c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3
d c in same space (pattern), repeat from * 3 times, s c in ch 2 loop of
last shell, ch 4, turn. Repeat 2nd row until work measures 16 inches
from beginning, ch 4, turn.

Next Row. 3 d c in same space, s c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3 d
c in same space, * insert hook in ch 2 loop of next shell, pull loop
through, repeat from * once, thread over hook and pull through all 3
loops at one time (a decrease of 1 shell), ch 2, 3 d c in same space, s
c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3 d c in same space, s c in ch 2
loop of last shell, ch 4, turn (4 shells). Work even in pattern for 2½
inches, ch 4, turn.

Next Row. 3 d c in same space, s c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3 d
c in same space, decrease in next 2 shells, ch 2, 3 d c in same space, s
c in ch 2 loop of last shell, ch 4, turn (3 shells). Work even in
pattern until tie measures 21 inches, ch 1, turn.

Next Row. NECKBAND: S c in next s c, * 1 s c in each of 3 d c of next
shell, repeat from * twice, s c in ch 2 loop of last shell, ch 1, turn
(11 s c).

Next Row. 1 s c in each s c, ch 1, turn. Repeat last row until band
measures 12 inches, ch 4, turn.

Next Row. 3 d c in same space, skip next 3 sts, s c in next st, ch 3, 2
d c in same space, skip next 2 sts, s c in next st, ch 2, 3 d c in same
space, skip next 2 sts, s c in last st, ch 4, turn (3 shells). Work even
in pattern for 2½ inches, ch 4, turn.

Next Row. 3 d c in same space, s c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3 d
c in same space, s c in next s c between shells, ch 2, 3 d c in same
space, s c in ch 2 loop of next shell, ch 2, 3 d c in same space, s c in
ch 2 loop of last shell, ch 4, turn (4 shells). Work even in pattern for
10½ inches, cut yarn. Face neckband with ribbon, using “STAR” Mercerized
Sewing Thread.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text; some entire pages appear out of sequence.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Star Book No. 98: Suggestions for
Fairs and Bazaars, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 98: FAIRS AND BAZAARS ***

***** This file should be named 62190-0.txt or 62190-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/2/1/9/62190/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

